

Spending time in beautiful outdoor places, the calming sound of the waves lapping against a shoreline, the feelings of accomplishment when you reel in personal best catch -- there are probably more reasons to go fishing than you ever realized.

Fishing newcomers and experienced anglers alike may want to check out this list of the best reasons to get out on the water and wet a line.
1. Spending more time outdoors.

Since the average fishing trip lasts a few hours, fishing can help boost the overall amount of time you spend outdoors to help balance out screen time spent on television or electronic devices. In fact, studies have shown that people who spend time outside on a regular basis are happier and more productive.
2. Fishing helps you learn lessons in patience.

Whether you are rigging live baits beneath a bobber or casting out your favorite lure, fishing requires you to pay close attention by watching and waiting for a strike.
3. You are participating in conservation.

Fishing contributes to the conservation of our aquatic resources through fishing license purchases that go towards research and waterway enhancement projects. The more you learn about fishing and conservation; the more mindful you are of proper catch and release, protecting our eco-systems, and respecting other anglers.
4. Fishing helps you relax and unwind.

Did you know that fishing is often used as recreational therapy because time spent in nature is showed to diminish depression, reduce inflammation, and offset stressful situations?
5. You build on feelings of achievement and empowerment.

It doesn't matter if you are rigging lines, driving your boat, or reeling in a catch; fishing helps build confidence through feelings of achievement and empowerment.
6. You consistently learn new skills while on the water.

No matter how long you've been fishing; there are always different techniques you can learn, new fisheries to experience, and new fishing knots to master.
7. Fishing gives you the opportunity to form special bonds with family and friends.

Adventures on the water bring people together in a number of ways. When you share the thrill of a first catch or the stunning scenery of a new waterway, you form bonds with your fishing buddies that can last a lifetime.
8. To mentor others and pass on the passion.

If you already fish, you probably had a mentor who took you out on the water and taught you invaluable lessons about the sport. One of the best reasons to go fishing is to pay it forward by helping others learn and why conservation is important.
9. It's just plain fun.

There really aren't many things that can compare to the fun of sharing fishing experiences with your friends and family.
10. To learn about the eco-systems and fish species.

Every time you head out on the water you can learn something new if you pay attention. You might note a feeding behavior of a particular species that can help you catch more fish, or you might learn about an environmental challenge faced by a particular waterway that encourages you to help find a solution.

If you're curious about other great reasons to go fishing, there's no better way to find out exactly what they are than spending time out on the water yourself. Grab your tackle box, call a friend or take the family, and get your lines in the water!
